---
title: About
layout: about.html
auth:
    user: guest
    pass: acc3000
---

This proof-of-concept website demonstrates my belief that Ayla Networks should do the following:

1. Focus on a single source of truth (this Ayla Core Content site) for information about Ayla technology.
1. Implement it as a static website generated by [Metalsmith](http://www.metalsmith.io/) from [Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) source files stored on [github](https://github.com/MattAtAyla/ayla-core-content).
1. Tap the minds of in-house subject matter experts within natural workflows. 
1. Establish an organizational structure and mindset around the Ayla Core Content site.

## Focus on single source of truth

Currently, Ayla employs one person to write and manage all product documentation. Ayla also squirrels away information in several places. A much more efficient approach is to establish one place for our guides, tutorials, references, definitions, product descriptions, diagrams, and videos, and design it so that all our experts can directly contribute to it without altering their everyday workflows.

This single source of truth should be easily accessible, organized, simple, versioned, accurate, maintainable, searchable, current, concise, grammatically correct, non-redundant, uniform in style, driven by user needs, informed by user feedback, and unopposed. 

All other information repositories should be deprecated including Ayla University which has the following negative impacts on the company:

1. It guarantees that obsolete information will always be around to confuse our customers because it will always be unmaintainable and understaffed. A slide deck by itself is a challenge to maintain. Hundreds of slide decks are more of a challenge. Hundreds of slide decks wrapped in videos (or re-worked into Storyline technology) represent maintenance that Ayla will be unwilling to fund.

1. It neither promotes nor assesses learning. Regarding the former, it is much less accessible than a simple static website. Regarding the latter, it is built on the false notion that clicks == learning, and it reinforces the delusion by requiring people to click, and then celebrating higher click counts. The promotion of learning and the assessment of learning are two different things. We should focus on the promotion of learning which starts with highly acccessible, simple, organized core content. If we need to prove to some authority that a person possesses certain Ayla knowledge and skills, we will do this with professionally designed and administered assessments. 

1. It is a distraction. It drains resources away from the building of, and it diverts eyes away from the use of, core content. 

## Implement a statically generated website from MD files on github

Many companies use static-site generators to publish technical documentation (see [Particle](https://docs.particle.io/guide/getting-started/intro/photon/) and [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.1/getting-started/introduction/).  

Metalsmith is one example of a static website generator. Essentially, it is a configurable data-transformation pipeline. It inputs files (e.g. Github Markdown and html templates), converts them to html, passes them through a series of [pluggable transformation modules](https://github.com/metalsmith/awesome-metalsmith/blob/master/PLUGINS.md), and outputs a static website (complete with html, css, js, and image files) which can be zipped into an archive file, uploaded to a web-hosting site, and deployed.

## Tap SMEs within natural workflows

One benefit of a statically generated website is that it can leverage source files (e.g. markdown) that are native to other systems. This means that engineers (who normally store markdown files on github under source control) can contribute directly to Ayla Core Content without changing normal routines, ultimately increasing productivity and accuracy. Markdown files look like this: 

<pre style="font-size: 60%; width:750px; overflow:auto;">
# Getting Started

### CocoaPods
Working with AMAP requires the use of [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org) 1.2.1 or higher for dependency management.

If you do not already have [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org), you must install it first using Terminal: 

```bash
$ gem install cocoapods
```

Note: This version of AMAP now supports Cocoapods version 1.2.1 and above.

```bash
$ gem upgrade cocoapods
```
</pre>

Another benefit is that statically generated websites are easily versioned. 

## Organize around Ayla Core Content

1. Establish a Department of Core Content, Training, and Certification. We will grow into the latter two.
1. Appoint a Manager of Core Content, Training, and Certification reporting to a technical director invested in the success of the department.
1. Create a github repo called ayla-core-content, and set it up like [this](https://github.com/MattAtAyla/ayla-core-content).
1. Discuss (with respect to technical information) the balance between confidentiality and accessibility. Static sites are, for the most part, public.
1. Establish a simple style guide. Users need to see both the markdown version and the html version of the guide.
1. Discuss and establish a plan for organizing the site directory structure and data layout. 
1. Define department job functions in terms of teaching style and data organization to engineers, and editing.
1. Recruit SMEs to migrate data from nooks and cranies to the ayla-core-content repo.
1. Explore and experiment with various Metalsmith data transformation modules. 
